W-14414684 Updating tutorial (#194)
mulesoft/docs-general: modules/ROOT/pages/api-led-develop.adoc

include::_attributes.adoc[]
endif::[]

Now that you've created an API specification, use it to create a Mule app.

In Anypoint Platform, developers package an API in an application that is deployed to an instance of xref:mule-runtime::index.adoc[Mule runtime engine (Mule)].
Mule is a lightweight integration engine that runs Mule apps. Instances of Mule are embedded in Studio, and in the environments where you deploy Mule apps and APIs.
These environments are called targets. One target is the Mule embedded in Studio, which you use for
development and testing. Another target, xref:runtime-manager::cloudhub.adoc[CloudHub], is managed by MuleSoft and is cloud based.

> You are going to deploy first to Mule in Studio, then, when the app is complete, you'll deploy it to Mule in CloudHub.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, you'll deploy the app to Mule in Studio and then, you'll deploy it to Mule in CloudHub.
```

Reviewer: what does "app is complete" mean?

image:empty-studio.png[Studio without any projects]

> . Package Explorer helps you navigate the files created for each project.

Reviewer: Is this the case where you calloutlist didn't work?
https://confluence.internal.salesforce.com/display/MTDT/Formatting+with+Asciidoc#FormattingwithAsciidoc-AddCalloutstoCodeBlocks

Author: No, I didn't make any changes here.

. The canvas is where you drag elements of your project and connect them, creating a flow.
. The Mule Palette provides quick access to standard or custom assets such as connectors and modules.
. The tabs in the configuration section provide access to configuration dialogs, the Mule debugger, and other developer dialogs.

== Step 3.1: Add Your Anypoint Platform Credentials to Studio

Add your Anypoint Platform credentials in Studio once, and they'll be available for all the future projects you create.

> . Open Studio, and then click *Anypoint Studio > Settings*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Open Studio, and then select *Anypoint Studio > Settings*.
```

. In the Preferences window, click *Anypoint Studio*, and then *Authentication*.
. Click *Add* and enter your Anypoint Platform username and password.
. Click *Sign in*. 
. Optionally, click *Yes* in the *Secure Storage - Password Hint Needed* dialog. 
. Click *Apply and Close*.

These credentials are automatically used for many operations in Studio.

== Step 3.2: Create a New Studio Project with an Imported API Specification

> In this step, you'll create the project.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this step, you create the project.
```

. In Studio, select *File > New > Mule Project*.
+
image:new-project-dialog.png[New project dialog]
. In the dialog box, provide the following values:
  ** *Project Name*: `hello-world-app`
  ** *Runtime*: If there is a choice, select the latest version of Mule. This is the Mule runtime engine that is hosted within Studio for testing.
  ** Select the *Import a published API* tab.
    ... Click the green plus sign, and then select *From Exchange*.
    ... Log in to your organization if needed.
    ... Type `hello-world` in the search box.
    ... Click *hello-world-api* to select it.
    ... Click *Add* to move it to the *Selected modules* list, and then click *Finish*.
. Verify that the checkbox *Scaffold flows from these API specifications* is selected, and click *Finish*. 
+

> This ensures that Studio adds default error handling and other helpful items to your project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This setting ensures that Studio adds default error handling and other helpful items to your project
```

> Studio creates a `hello-world.xml` XML file and opens it in the canvas *Message Flow* view, showing the basic elements you'll need for the API interface:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Studio creates a `hello-world.xml` XML file and opens it in the canvas *Message Flow* view, showing the basic elements you need for the API interface:
```

image:my-first-project.png[View in Studio after importing API specification with scaffolding]

> If you scroll down the canvas, you can see all the scaffolding that has been added to your app:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Scroll down the canvas to see the scaffolding that was added to your app:
```

* HTTP Listener is ready to receive requests
* APIkit Router routes messages
* Error handlers for different error conditions
* A console, *hello-world-app-console*, which you won't use for this project

> * The GET request to endpoint `/greeting`, where you do the bulk of your configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* The GET request to endpoint `/greeting`, where you do the bulk of your configuration
```

Notice that there are three different views of the canvas:

image:canvas-tabs.png[One canvas and links to all three views, 500]

> * *Message Flow* makes it easy to drag modules, connectors, and other assets and create the relationships between them.

Reviewer: Is there a way to switch up the "makes it easy" verbiage? 

Use Message Flow to...
Message Flow: Drag...

* *Global Elements* makes it easy to specify global elements used in multiple projects.
* *Configuration XML* makes it easy to edit the XML of a project directly.

Verify the values set in the *Listener* component in the canvas:

. Double-click *Listener* to display its general configuration values.
. Click the edit icon image:edit-module-version-icon.png[Pencil on notebook] next to the configuration name, and verify that the host is `0.0.0.0` and the port is `8081`.
. Click *Test Connection*, and then click *OK* when a successful test connection is reported.

> . Click *OK* to close the configuration. This leaves you in the *Global Configuration Elements* tab.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click *OK* to close the configuration.
+
You return to the *Global Configuration Elements* tab.
```

Reviewer: Or just remove the second sentence?

Author: I do think it's necessary because it's a weird place to end up.

> . Click *Message Flow* to return to the canvas. The general configuration values for the Listener component are still displayed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click *Message Flow* to return to the canvas.
+
The general configuration values for the Listener component are still displayed.
```

Reviewer: Just for scanning and to separate the instruction from the result.

. Verify that *Path* is set as */api/**. This best practice ensures that all endpoints are formed like `base-URI/api/endpoint`.

> In the next step, you'll create business logic and configure the elements you need for this API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the next step, you create business logic and configure the elements you need for this API.
```

== Step 3.3: Configure the API

> Using the scaffolding provided by Studio, complete the app by configuring the `/greeting` endpoint module:

Reviewer: ahhh... complete!

. In the *Message Flow* view, scroll down the canvas until you see the `/greeting` endpoint module:
+
image:greeting-module.png[View of GET connector as created by scaffolding, 500]
. Right-click the *Transform Message* component and delete it.
. In *Mule Palette*, select *Favorites* to display a list of components, services, transformers, and routers.
. Click *Set Payload* to select it, and then drag it into the *Process* space, where you deleted Transform Message.

> . Specify the logic that displays the data sent in a response from the hello-world-api API:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Specify the logic that displays the data sent in a response from the `hello-world-api` API:
```

Reviewer: (I don't know if you need the font change.)

*******************************************************************************************************
*            - - + APPLICATION + - -            *       - - + DOMAIN + - -       * - - + STATUS + - - *
*******************************************************************************************************
* hello-world-app                                  * default                        * DEPLOYED           *
*******************************************************************************************************
----
. To test the app, open a REST client (Advanced Rest Client) and issue a GET request:
+
`\http://localhost:8081/api/greeting`
+

> Your REST client returns a `200 OK` message and the body `Today the greeting is Hello.`.

Reviewer: I would delete the . in the message, but understand if you keep it.

+
link:https://anypoint.mulesoft.com/login/#/signup["Take me to Anypoint Platform^", role="button-primary"]
. Find *Management Center* on the landing page and click *Access Management*.
. In the navigation panel, click *Business Groups*.
. Click *Create business group* and enter `My Top Business Group` in *Name*. 

> . In the *Parent business group* dropdown, select a business group you are an administrator for.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. From the *Parent business group* dropdown, select a business group you are an administrator for.
```

Reviewer: I would switch this around to "Select... from"

. In *Owner*, enter your user name and select it when it is found. 
. Select the *Can create environments* checkbox, and click *Create*.

Your new business group is listed underneath the organization name in the Access Management screen.

== Step 3.6. Publish the API to Exchange

Publish the API to Exchange so it can serve as a template or example for others.

. In Studio, from Package Explorer, right-click the `hello-world-app` project.
. Select *Anypoint Platform > Publish to Exchange*.
+
image:pub-to-exchange.png[Dialog to publish API to Exchange]

. Enter values for your project:
  ** For *User*, select your username.
  ** For *Business group*, select the *My Top Business Group* business group you created. You can't use the root business group, which appears by default in this field. If your credentials expired, click *Add account* to add them again.
  ** Leave *Version* with the default value.
  ** Select *Project type > Example*. 
. Click *Next*.

> . You can add documentation, descriptions, and tags that aid users in searching Exchange for available assets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. You can add documentation, descriptions, and tags to help users find available assets in Exchange.
```

image:link-to-published-api.png[Dialog showing link to API published in Exchange, 600] 

> . Click the link to view the project in Exchange.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click the link to view the project in Exchange:
```

+
image:api-led-assets-list-arrow.png[Home page of the hello-world-app you deployed]
+
. Click *Back to Assets List*. 
+
You can now see the Exchange tile for the asset you just published. 
. (Optional) Sign out of Exchange and search for the asset you just created. 
  .. Click the tile for your *hello-world-app*. 

>   .. In the *Asset Versions* section, click the three vertical dots and select *Version detail*. Notice that HTTP Connector, Sockets Connector, and APIKit module are listed as dependencies.

Reviewer: See previous kebab link.
